---
title: "My First Agile Open NorthWest"
date: 2025-03-08T11:45:59-05:00
tags: [agile, soft skills]
featured_image: ""
description: ""
draft: true
canonicalUrl: "https://www.pathtoprogramming.com/posts/aonw-2025/"
---

Remember this post is for myself and documenting my experience at AONW

# Intro

Write this after

I've been to around 12 open spaces, but this is by far the longest one.


# Opening Circle


# Open Space Norms (5 principles and 1 law)

## Roles We Play (look these up or share a link instead of restating...)

### Host


### Attendee


### GroundHog

### Butterfly

### Bumble Bee

# Housing Arrangements & Total Cost / Value


# Day One: March 5, 2025

I chose to not host a session day 1 so I can observe what kinds of topics and what the rooms were like
[post image of marketplace]

## Positive Energy and Passion


## MicroObjects with Quinn Gil

## Desert vs. Forest with Mike Clement

## Brain as a Battery with Steve Kuo

## Language Hunt with Wiliam Larson (sp?)

## TDD Game with Ted M. Young

## ACN Debate with Jay Bazuzi and Llewellyn Falco (sp?)

## Nullables + Ports & Adapters with Kody Fintak (sp?) and Ted M. Young

## Closing Circle

What did we do again?
Small circle of 6 chairs and they passed mic and gave observations. People would leave and new people would step up

## Dinner

Got dinner. I volunteered to pick up Katsu Burger with Steve and Kody.

I ate my dinner while playing a game.

## Keep Talking & Nobody Explodes


## PlaneTrain Evening Coding Session with Ellis L. and Steve Kuo

From 7-9pm were the evening sessions
Steve was demonstrating how he gives interviews. After 6 min interview he has them do TDD by the book with FizzBuzz.
With new AI integrations into IntelliJ, they did PlaneTrain instead. Same rules as Fizz Buzz, just to trick AI.

Lot of strong opinions and interruptions by the attendees. It never morphed into a mob which was dissapointing. It ended with a heated debate about early returns with if's vs. if, else-if, else

## My Closing thoughts on Day One

# Games
separate section dedicated to games vs. linear time progression

# Day Two

I came into Day 2 feeling very comfortable. I even shared that in the mic to everyone that morning. I said "Yesterday I was more nervous but today I feel very comfortable with all of you. These are my people."

## Opening Circle

Day pass Newcomers. Circle around newcomers. Paul. we explained roles and rules of Open Space and encouraged him to host a session which he did!


## Mental Hygiene Workshop hosted by me


## Character Sheet Depickle with Josh Bruce

Share Know Your Self link

## IDE Shortcuts with Kody Fintak (sp?)

## Job Search with Danny Faught

I was a big time butterfly this conference. There were many good sesions at the same time so I wanted to get a piece of at least 2 sessions within the 50 min block.

In the big room with 5 sessions happening in the sides of the room, I kept an eye out for hosts that had few to none attendees. One of those was Danny's session. Danny has been unemplyed for 9 months...
This chat led to Danny creating an evening sesion about career networking.

## XP Training Strategies with Garrick West


## More TDD Game

I ended up buying the game, so I wanted to get more practice and help on how to play from the game creator.

I played with 2 other devs.

## Dinner Kizuki Ramen

8 of us.
Arrived late for my own session. It starts when it starts!


## Parallel Change Learning Hour — Evening Session hosted by me


Not what I expected, but very valuable.

I walked in acting like a teacher and walked out a learner.
Primitive Obsession clarity.
Llewellyn Falco penalty box
Unstructured Mobbing
Encapsulation to make scope of parallel change smaller

Share 13 commits [link]



# Last Day 😢









